#Final Project Writeup

##Will Potter

Team marketmusic had a great time and built an exciting new experiment to randomly generate music based on the performance of publicly traded stocks. The application (willpots.github.io/marketmusic) allows a user to choose a stock by its ticker symbol and then play the generator. The generator will plot a graph of the price while also playing the music to accompany the graph. We used new HTML5 features, such as the Web Audio API and canvas while also using 3rd party libraries like jQuery and oCanvas. On the team, Mike headed up the musical development, by determining the patterns to play and programming the web audio API. Hunter and Cayla researched similar products online and came up with the interface for the project. I wrote the functionality to pull data from Yahoo's finance API, while also writing a good bit of the connecting logic to tie Hunter, Cayla and Mike's work together. Overall, the project was fun, enjoyable and challenging.


##Cayla Marvil
Our final project is a website that allows the user to enter a stock abbreviation, and experience music and a visualization based on the performance of the stock. For example, if the user enters GOOG and Google happens to be doing very well (the stock is “in the black” – indicated by positive stock derivative values – wahoo making money!), then the site will generate simple tones relating to a major pentatonic. If the user enters GOOG and Google is doing rather poorly (the stock is “in the red” – indicated by negative stock derivative values – losing money...), then the site will generate tones relating to a chromatic scale (chose these scales because major vs. minor didn't sound positive vs. dissonant enough). Mike did a fabulous job coming up with all these musical tones.


Along with the music, a stock ticker appears at the top of the website that dictates exactly what the stock quote at a given moment is. These stock quotes are updated every few seconds and are pulled from Yahoo Finance. Will did an amazing job laying out all the code to get these quotes on our website and corresponding with the music.


The stock quotes also correspond directly with the graphical visualization in the middle/bottom of the site. As the quote is updated every few seconds, a graph is built (using an oCanvas library) that follows the general plot of each quote – its supposed to vaguely represent a musical waveform too so that the music and visualization complement each other. I laid out the ideas for the visualization, and, after spending an embarrassing amount of time trying to figure out how to code it (and how to actually get it to correspond to the music which I never was able to do), I was gratefully assisted by Will who designed the oCanvas code in order to layout what I had pictured.


##Mike Gadomski
Our project uses real-time data from the stock market to control music generated by the web audio API. The goal is that the music played when a stock is inputted reflects how well the stock is doing—poor performance is represented by dissonant tones while good performance is represented by consonant tones based on the major pentatonic scale. Will was responsible for writing the code to get data from the stock market. Hunter and Cayla were responsible for the visual interface, including the graphics and style of the page. My responsibility laid in the music itself. Using one of the examples from the class website as a guide, I wrote the code to generate the notes. The code relies heavily on arrays—each scale is represented by numbers in a different array. The code deploys notes based on two variables: rate of change and value of the stock. The rate of change of the stock controls how hectic the music sounds. Overall I’m happy with the final product. Given more time, many more options could be explored, but this is a good starting point.


##Hunter Nolan